---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Workout of the Day: Building a Webpage with HTML and CSS"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-11
published: true
labels:
  - Computer Science
---
Workout of the Day: Building a Webpage with HTML and CSS

My very first experience with 'Workout of the Day' or "WODs" in the realm of web development was a roller coaster ride filled with exhilarating highs and frustrating lows. It all began when I embarked on my journey with BrowserHistory1. I had diligently read through the provided materials but decided to skip the screencast, thinking I could handle it. Little did I know, I was in for a wild ride.

As I sat down to tackle the task, I felt like a novice stepping into uncharted territory. HTML and CSS seemed like foreign languages at first, and I stumbled through the process at a snail's pace. To make sense of it all, I resorted to an old-school method – pen and paper. I meticulously wrote down what I intended to code, working out the logic and structure before diving into the digital realm. Surprisingly, this analog approach worked wonders for me. The act of putting pen to paper somehow cemented the concepts in my brain.

With newfound determination, I recorded my first screencast. I managed to complete it within the prescribed time, but there was a snag – I hadn't added any narration. Nevertheless, I persisted and repeated the process for BrowserHistory2. It felt like déjà vu as I went through the motions once again. Re-recording was frustrating, no doubt, but in hindsight, I realized it was a necessary step in my learning journey.

BrowserHistory2 presented itself as a complex puzzle waiting to be pieced together. Before coding, I diligently jotted down my game plan on paper. This time, I wanted to ensure I had notes to fall back on if I ever needed a quick reference, whether it was for inserting a hyperlink or handling other intricacies. Of course, I found myself in the re-recording loop once more.

Then came BrowserHistory3, which proved to be a tad more challenging. It wasn't necessarily the complexity that got me; it was my own expectation that it would be easier than it turned out to be. One specific challenge arose when I struggled to align columns precisely with their respective headers. Frustration was mounting, and I made the difficult decision to move forward, lest I fall into the endless loop of re-recording.

But my journey didn't end there. As I sit here, fingers poised over my keyboard, I find myself in a perplexing predicament. I'm grappling with an issue, one that's been causing sleepless nights – pushing the 'BrowserHistory3' file to my online repository. Hours have been dedicated to troubleshooting, scouring forums, and consulting documentation, but the solution remains elusive. Still, I cling to the hope that a new day will bring fresh insight, and this conundrum will unravel before me.

In summary, this journey into HTML and CSS had me soaring on cloud nine when my code performed as expected and my webpage rendered flawlessly. Conversely, it had me tearing my hair out in frustration when a tag was out of place or a push refused to commit. Yet, amidst the highs and lows, one thing is certain – I'm learning and growing, one 'Workout of the Day' at a time.





